.\" vim: ft=nroff
.TH MBSINIT 3 05-Jul-2020 MinGW "MinGW Programmer's Reference Manual"
.
.SH NAME
.B \%mbsinit
\- check state of multibyte to wide character conversion
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  #include
.RB < wchar.h >
.PP
.B  int mbsinit( mbstate_t
.BI * ps
.B  );
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I ps
is not a NULL pointer,
the
.BR \%mbsinit ()
function determines whether the
.B \%mbstate_t
object,
to which it points,
represents a multibyte to wide character conversion in the
.IR initial ,
or in an
.I intermediate
state.
.
.PP
The
.I initial
conversion state is represented by a
.I zero\(hyvalued
.B \%mbstate_t
object.
(POSIX.1 stipulates that this representation must be supported,
although additional alternative representations are permitted;
MinGW uses only the zero\(hyvalued representation).
.
.PP
In MinGW,
an initial conversion state may be establised by initialization:
.PP
.RS 4n
.EX
mbstate_t st = (mbstate_t)(0), *ps = &st;
.EE
.RE
.PP
or by assignment:
.PP
.RS 4n
.EX
*ps = (mbstate_t)(0);
.EE
.RE
.PP
However,
for portability:
.PP
.RS 4n
.EX
memset( ps, 0, sizeof( mbstate_t ));
.EE
.RE
.PP
may be preferred.
.
.PP
Nominally,
.B \%mbstate_t
objects represent
.I shift states
of the active codeset.
However,
since \%MS\(hyWindows codesets do not use shift states,
as such,
MinGW uses
.B \%mbsinit_t
odjects to represent an alternative class of
.I intermediate conversion
.IR states ,
viz.:
.RS 2n
.ll -2n
.IP \(bu 2n
Parsing of a multibyte sequence has been interrupted,
before interpretation of
.B \%MB_CUR_MAX
bytes,
without identification of a complete code point;
this conversion state may arise following a call of
.BR mbrlen (3),
or
.BR mbrtowc (3),
which has returned a parsed sequence length of
.IR \%(size_t)(\-2) .
.
.IP \(bu 2n
Processing of a wide character sequence has encountered a
.IR high\ surrogate ,
but the complementary
.I low surrogate
has yet to be evaluated;
this state may arise after a call of
.BR mbrtowc (3),
has returned the
.IR high\ surrogate ,
(with a returned sequence length between
.I one
and
.BR \%MB_CUR_MAX ),
and a further call is needed,
to retrieve the
.IR low\ surrogate ;
alternatively,
a complementary conversion state may arise when
.BR wcrtomb (3)
has been called to interpret a
.IR high\ surrogate ,
and a further call,
to complete the conversion to a multibyte sequence,
by evaluation of the complementary
.IR low\ surrogate ,
is still required.
.ll +2n
.RE
.
.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If
.I ps
is a NULL pointer,
or if the conversion state,
represented by the
.B \%mbstate_t
object to which it points,
is the
.I initial
state,
.BR \%mbsinit ()
returns a
.I \%non\(hyzero
value;
otherwise,
.I \%zero
is returned,
indicating an
.I intermediate
conversion state.
.
.
.SH ERROR CONDITIONS
No error conditions are defined.
.
.
.SH STANDARDS CONFORMANCE
The
.I \%libmingwex
implementation of
.BR mbsinit ()
conforms generally to
.BR \%ISO\(hyC99 ,
.BR \%POSIX.1\(hy2001 ,
and
.BR \%POSIX.1\(hy2008 .
.
.
.\"SH EXAMPLE
.
.
.SH CAVEATS AND BUGS
Prior to \%mingwrt\(hy5.3,
the
.I \%libmingwex
implementation of
.BR mbsinit ()
would always return
.IR \%non\(hyzero ,
apparently indicating an
.I initial
conversion state,
regardless of the actual state indicated by any
.B \%mbstate_t
object referred to by
.IR *ps ;
this defect is corrected,
in \%mingwrt\(hy5.3.
.
.PP
Any
.I intermediate conversion
.IR state ,
arising from a call to
.BR mbrlen (3),
.BR mbrtowc (3),
or
.BR wcrtomb (3),
is specific to the particular conversion which produces it.
Any intermediate state produced by
.BR mbrlen (3),
or by
.BR mbrtowc (3)
may be resolved by a further call to either of these two functions,
or to
.BR mbsrtowcs (3),
provided the initial part of the multibyte sequence,
passed in the subsequent call,
completes the sequence which led to the intermediate state;
if this intermediate state is used in any other context,
the consequent behaviour is undefined.
.
.PP
Similarly,
an intermediate state resulting from a call to
.BR wcrtomb (3)
may be resolved by a further call to
.BR wcrtomb (3),
or to
.BR wcsrtomb (3),
provided the first,
(or the only),
wide character to be interpreted,
in the subsequent call,
represents the
.I low surrogate
which completes the pending
.I surrogate pair
from which the intermediate state was created.
Once again,
if this intermediate state is used in any other context,
the consequent behaviour is undefined.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR \%mbrlen (3),
.BR \%mbrtowc (3),
.BR \%mbsrtowcs (3),
.BR \%wcrtomb (3),
and
.BR \%wcrtomb (3).
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by \%Keith\ Marshall,
\%<keith@users.osdn.me>,
to document the
.BR \%mbsinit ()
function as it has been implemented for the MinGW.org Project.
It may be copied, modified and redistributed,
without restriction of copyright,
provided this acknowledgement of contribution by
the original author remains in place.
.
.\" EOF
